PORT-14000 Add Task Manager AI agent setup guide (#2187)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/guides/all/setup-pr-enricher-ai-agent.md

---
displayed_sidebar: null
description: Set up a Pull Request Enricher AI agent to automatically comment on pull requests with additional context
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

# Set up a Pull Request Enricher AI agent

## Overview

This guide will walk you through enriching pull requests using our AI agents to boost your developers' productivity and reduce the time to review a PR. 
By the end of this guide, developers will have summarized organizational context on their PRs, allowing faster review time.

> <img src="/img/ai-agents/AIAgentPREnricherPage.png" width="100%" border="1px" />

Reviewer: @kodjomiles image missing

- The data sources it will use to analyze pull requests.
- The agent configuration that defines its capabilities.
- An automation to trigger the agent when new pull requests are opened.

### Configure data source access

For this guide, we will be using **GitHub** as our primary data source, along with related services and components in your software catalog.

Make sure you have:
- [Port's GitHub app](/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/git/github/) installed and configured.
- Your services and components properly mapped in Port.

### Create the agent configuration

1. Go to the [AI Agents](https://app.getport.io/_ai_agents) page of your portal.
2. Click on `+ AI Agent`.
3. Toggle `Json mode` on.
4. Copy and paste the following JSON schema:

   <details>
   <summary><b>Pull Request Enricher agent configuration (Click to expand)</b></summary>

   ```json
   {
     "identifier": "pr_assistant_ai_agent",
     "title": "PR Review Assistant",
     "icon": "Pipeline",
     "properties": {
       "description": "Comment on open PRs with additional context to assist developers",
       "status": "active",
       "allowed_blueprints": [
         "service",

>          "githubPullRequest"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         "githubPullRequest",
         "pagerdutyIncident",
         "jiraIssue",
         "_user",
         "_team"
```

       ],

>        "prompt": "You are an experienced Technical Engineering Team Lead. Your primary function is to generate risk assessment. If you can, add emojis (green, yellow, red, and more for fun) 😃 Don't try to be precise, just put what you can.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       "prompt": "You are an experienced Technical Engineering Team Lead. Your job is to enrich pull requests with helpful context for reviewers. Based on the linked Jira issue, the author, and their team, write a short risk assessment: what’s changed, what could break, and anything worth a second look. Add fun, clear emojis (✅🟡🔴, etc.) to highlight risk levels. No need to be exact—just provide quick, useful insights to speed up review.",
```

     "title": "Upon PR opened, trigger PR Assistant",
     "description": "Automation to trigger PR Assistant when a new PR is opened",
     "trigger": {
       "type": "automation",
       "event": {
         "type": "ANY_ENTITY_CHANGE",
         "blueprintIdentifier": "githubPullRequest"
       },
       "condition": {
         "type": "JQ",
         "expressions": [
           ".diff.before == null",
           ".diff.after.status == \"open\""
         ],
         "combinator": "and"
       }
     },
     "invocationMethod": {
       "type": "WEBHOOK",
       "url": "https://api.getport.io/v1/agent/pr_assistant_ai_agent/invoke",
       "synchronized": true,
       "body": {
         "prompt": "A new pull request has been opened. Please analyze it and provide a risk assessment. \n## PR Details\nTitle: {{ .event.diff.properties.title }}\nDescription: {{ .event.diff.properties.description }}\nRepository: {{ .event.diff.properties.repository }}\nAuthor: {{ .event.diff.properties.author }}",
         "labels": {
           "source": "Automation"
         }
       }
     },
     "publish": true
   }
   ```
   </details>

5. Click on `Create` to save the automation

> ### Add a GitHub workflow

Reviewer: @kodjomiles why do we actually need the workflow? I'm missing something. We already know when there is a new entity on a PR

Reviewer: @kodjomiles the flow is:
1. Automation runs and generates a response from the agent
2. 2nd automation runs and runs the GH workflow (that comments). This is incorrect WF
